feat: Add expiration date to access token & hmac keys (#1219)
codeigniter4/shield: docs/references/authentication/tokens.md

### Access Token Lifetime

> Tokens will expire after a specified amount of time has passed since they last have been used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokens will expire after a specified amount of time has passed since they have last been used.
```

$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-15 00:00:00');
$user->setAccessTokenExpirationById($token->id, $expiresAt);

// Or Expiration date = 1 month + 15 days into the future
$expiresAt = Time::now()->addMonths(1)->addDays(15);

$user->setAccessTokenExpirationById($token->id, $expiresAt);
```

The following support methods are also available:

`hasAccessTokenExpired(AccessToken $accessToken)` - Checks if Access Token has expired. Returns `true` if the Access Token has expired, `false` if not.

```php
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-03 12:00:00');

$token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo.bar'], $expiresAt);

$this->user->hasAccessTokenExpired($token); // Returns true
```

`canAccessTokenExpire(AccessToken $HmacToken)` - Checks if Access Token has an expiration set. Returns `true` or `false` accordingly.

```php
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-03 12:00:00');

$token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo.bar'], $expiresAt);
$this->user->canAccessTokenExpire($token2); // Returns false

$token2 = $this->user->generateAccessToken('bar');
$this->user->canAccessTokenExpire($token); // Returns true
```

### Access Token Expiration vs Lifetime

> Expiration and Lifetime are different concepts. The lifetime is the maximum time allowed for the token to exist since its last use. Token expiration, on the other hand, is a set date in which the Access Token will cease to function.

Reviewer 2: Please add a line break between the section header and the content.

public $unusedTokenLifetime = YEAR;
```

## Expiring Access Tokens

By default, the Access Tokens don't expire unless they meet the Access Token lifetime expiration after their last used date.

Access Tokens can be set to expire through the `generateAccessToken()` method. This takes the expiration date as the $expiresAt argument. It's also possible to update an existing HMAC key using `setAccessTokenById($HmacTokenID, $expiresAt)`

`$expiresAt` [Time](/libraries/time.html) object

```php
// Expiration date = 2024-11-03 12:00:00
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-03 12:00:00');

> $token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo:bar'], $expiresAt);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo.bar'], $expiresAt);
```

// Expiration date = 2024-11-15 00:00:00
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-15 00:00:00');
$user->setAccessTokenExpirationById($token->id, $expiresAt);

// Or Expiration date = 1 month + 15 days into the future

> $expiresAt = Time::now();
> $expiresAt = $expiresAt->addMonths(1);
> $expiresAt = $expiresAt->addDays(15);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$expiresAt = Time::now()->addMonths(1)->addDays(15);
```

$user->setAccessTokenExpirationById($token->id, $expiresAt);
```

The following support methods are also available:

> `hasAccessTokenExpired(AccessToken $accessToken)` - Checks if Access Token has expired. Returns `true` if the Access Token has expired, `false` if not, and `null` if the expire date is not set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`hasAccessTokenExpired(AccessToken $accessToken)` - Checks if Access Token has expired. Returns `true` if the Access Token has expired, `false` if not.
```

```php
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-03 12:00:00');

> $token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo:bar'], $expiresAt);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo.bar'], $expiresAt);
```

$this->user->hasAccessTokenExpired($token); // Returns true
```

`canAccessTokenExpire(AccessToken $HmacToken)` - Checks if Access Token has an expiration set. Returns `true` or `false` accordingly.

```php
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-03 12:00:00');

> $token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo:bar'], $expiresAt);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo.bar'], $expiresAt);
```

public $unusedTokenLifetime = YEAR;
```

## Expiring Access Tokens

> By default, the Access Tokens don't expire unless they meet the Access Token lifetime expiration after their last used date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the Access Tokens don't expire unless they reach the Access Token's lifetime expiration after their last use date.
```

> Access Tokens can be set to expire through the `generateAccessToken()` method. This takes the expiration date as the $expiresAt argument. To update or remove an existing HMAC key expiration date use `setAccessTokenById($HmacTokenID, $expiresAt)`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Access Tokens can be set to expire through the `generateAccessToken()` method. This takes the expiration date as the `$expiresAt` argument. To update or remove an existing HMAC key expiration date use `setAccessTokenById($HmacTokenID, $expiresAt)`
```
I have the same question about the function name `setHmacTokenExpirationById` here as well. What do you think? 😃

> `$expiresAt` [Time](/libraries/time.html) object

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`$expiresAt` [Time](https://codeigniter.com/user_guide/libraries/time.html) object
```

> Access Tokens can be set to expire through the `generateAccessToken()` method. This takes the expiration date as the `$expiresAt` argument. To update an existing HMAC key expiration date use `updateAcessTokenExpiration($hmacTokenID, $expiresAt)` and to remove `removeAccessTokenExpiration($hmacTokenID)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access Tokens can be set to expire through the `generateAccessToken()` method. This takes the expiration date as the `$expiresAt` argument. To update an existing HMAC key expiration date, use `updateAcessTokenExpiration($accessTokenID, $expiresAt)`. To remove it, use `removeAccessTokenExpiration($accessTokenID)`.
```

```php
// Expiration date = 2024-11-03 12:00:00
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-03 12:00:00');
$token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo.bar'], $expiresAt);

// Expiration date = 2024-11-15 00:00:00
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-15 00:00:00');
$user->setAccessTokenExpirationById($token->id, $expiresAt);

// Or Expiration date = 1 month + 15 days into the future
$expiresAt = Time::now()->addMonths(1)->addDays(15);
$user->setAccessTokenExpirationById($token->id, $expiresAt);

// Remove the expiration date
$token = $user->setAccessTokenExpirationById($token->id, null);
```

The following support methods are also available:

> `hasAccessTokenExpired(AccessToken $accessToken)` - Checks if Access Token has expired. Returns `true` if the Access Token has expired, `false` if not.

Reviewer 3: What do you think? 😃
```suggestion
`isAccessTokenExpired(AccessToken $accessToken)` - Checks if Access Token has expired. Returns `true` if the Access Token has expired, `false` if not.
```

> `isAccessTokenExpired(AccessToken $accessToken)` - Checks if Access Token is expired. Returns `true` if the Access Token is expired, `false` if not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`isAccessTokenExpired(AccessToken $accessToken)` - Checks if Access Token is expired. Returns `true` if the Access Token is expired; otherwise, returns `false`.
```

```php
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-03 12:00:00');

$token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo.bar'], $expiresAt);

> $this->user->hasAccessTokenExpired($token); // Returns true

Reviewer 3: And?
```suggestion
$this->user->isAccessTokenExpired($token); // Returns true
```

```

> `canAccessTokenExpire(AccessToken $HmacToken)` - Checks if Access Token has an expiration set. Returns `true` or `false` accordingly.

Reviewer 3: What do you think? 😃
```suggestion
`hasAccessTokenExpiry(AccessToken $HmacToken)` - Checks if Access Token has an expiration set. Returns `true` or `false` accordingly.
```

> `hasAccessTokenExpiry(AccessToken $HmacToken)` - Checks if Access Token has an expiration set. Returns `true` or `false` accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`hasAccessTokenExpiry(AccessToken $accessToken)` - Returns `true` if the Access Token has a set expiration date; otherwise, returns `false`.
```

```php
$expiresAt = Time::parse('2024-11-03 12:00:00');

$token = $this->user->generateAccessToken('foo', ['foo.bar'], $expiresAt);

> $this->user->canAccessTokenExpire($token2); // Returns false

Reviewer 3: And?
```suggestion
$this->user->canAccessTokenExpire($token2); // Returns false
```

$token2 = $this->user->generateAccessToken('bar');

> $this->user->canAccessTokenExpire($token); // Returns true

Reviewer 3: And?
```suggestion
$this->user->canAccessTokenExpire($token); // Returns true
```

```

### Access Token Expiration vs Lifetime

> Expiration and Lifetime are different concepts. The lifetime is the maximum time allowed for the token to exist since its last use. Token expiration, on the other hand, is a set date in which the Access Token will cease to function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expiration and lifetime are two different concepts. The lifetime is the maximum time allowed for the token to exist since its last use. Token expiration, on the other hand, is a set date in which the Access Token will cease to function.
```
